In this demo we're going to look at VPC setup and this could
be a really long demo looking at all aspects of setting up
public/private gateway services, security groups,
NACLs,
but in one sense I don't really want you to follow a demo and
set something up without thinking about it.
So we're going to do a little different setup in this demo,
I'm going to show you where you can start and give
you some options for automation.
Starting with automation, we're going to look at cloud formation.
Now I've already logged in to Amazon, so I'm there,
so looking at the documentation for services,
there are some sample templates that can show us how to use cloud formation.
So Globomantics has decided to look at one of these templates and see
whether or not it can be a baseline which they can add onto.
So scrolling down,
we can see there's a lot of templates for a lot of different setups,
the one we're interested in is the virtual private cloud.
So to take a look at this automation, let's take a look at the simple one,
a simple EC2 instance in an Amazon VPC.
So let's launch this stack.
Now take a look at the top of the account where it's put me into Oregon.
I don't have any resources there so I'm going to go back to US East.
So you have to keep in mind that I've started some automation and
the automation was created in a particular region.
I have to make sure it matches my region or it's not going to work.
So we're using this particular file from Amazon,
we'll click Next,
and we have not much to set in place other than how do I authenticate,
so I'll pick wired brain.
SSHLocation I could define, I'll leave it open for now, and click Next.
Key values, do some test automation, and all we have to do now is click Create.
It should launch this and we can see the create is in progress.
Selecting the stack we can see what's happening and it
shows us the complete automation, it's made the VPC,
it's added in the internet gateway, and it's continuing on,
adding in its subnets and adding in the rest of the pieces.
Well look at that, that's completed.
So I can look at my resources and it tells me exactly what it set up for me.
So let's head over to EC2.
I've got an additional running instance and that would be this one.
Alright so it set it up for me.
Now I'm also paying for resources.
If I go down to Elastic IP, it's using an elastic IP and it's good to go.
So automation, don't forget automation to set up a VPC and an instance,
and there's nothing to stop you from using cloud formation
for complete automation of just your VPC.
Now another component for setup is to consider using
the VPC Wizard to set up the VPC.
Because from the wizard,
let's say I wanted to select a VPC with public/private
subnets and hardware VPN access,
I could select that option and it would give me all of the
possibilities that I had to fill out,
meaning I'm not going to leave anything behind,
and it's a simple matter of adding in all of my wiring,
all of my addresses, and creating it and having it very quickly created.
I find it a really nice clean way to look at setting up your VPN and
looking at all the possibilities of what you might need. So there's a look at VPC setup, automation and the wizard.